well renewed diplomatic efforts to
negotiate a truce in Gaza and the
exchange of Palestinian prisoners with
Israeli captives are moving forward Al
jazer has learned that talks between
katari mediators the mosad and the CIA
in Warsaw were positive Hamas is pushing
for a permanent ceasefire but Israel's
far-right coalition government has
publicly stated that they expect the war
to continue Israel media are reporting
that they want the next deal to include
30 to 40 captives from the 12 Who Remain
inside Gaza they also wanted to include
women the elderly and captives in need
of medical attention well let's speak to
our correspondent hasham albar it's your
reporting that this is based on what
more can you tell us so basically the
the the there has been series of
meetings between senior officials uh
that paved the way to the trilateral
meeting that took place on Monday in
Wasau and it was positive and it has
triggered new push to try to explore the
potential for a new agreement this
agreement is going to be based according
to our sources on two aspects two key
aspects which is the president exchange
and a ceasefire why it's very important
we we we'll talk to it about it later in
detail in details on FR Friday last
Friday there's been a meeting between
qatar's prime minister and mad Chief in
Europe so this buildup IS is is is a
strong indication that we're likely to
see uh some announcement in the upcoming
days uh on on a
deal the problem as we speak now is on
the different interpretations of both
the Israelis and Hamas Hamas insist this
time it is not going to be an ex a
prisoners exchange solely it is going to
be based on a permanent
ceasefire of course it
will boil down on whether the qataris
ultimately will be able to narrow down
the differences between the Israelis and
Hamas but we're getting strong
indications that this time there is a
push by all the parties to come up with
with an agreement well I mean that
position that permanent ceasefire
position from Hamas is one that is
entirely different from the Israeli
position uh which is to continue
Prosecuting this war although the
Israeli government is under an enormous
amount of pressure to get more of these
captives back back does that pressure
does a potential big price in terms of
for the Israelis in terms of Palestinian
prisoners in the opposite direction
could that help narrow the Gap I mean
how did those two very different
positions get get these are
extraordinary moments for all the
parties Hamas understands in particular
the uh the issues at stake for for for
for the Israelis and for prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu in particular this
explains why the head of the Hamas
Bureau political Bureau
is in Egypt uh today and he is going to
talk to the Egyptians because you know
there are different aspects to the to
the agreement when you talk about the
president's exchange this is where the
Israel and the Egyptians will be pretty
much involved because when it comes to
the release and to their movement and to
their route all the way from Gaza into
Israel similar to what we saw during the
previous agreement so there is this time
a potential for an agreement it just
remains to be seen what will be the new
criteria last time it was based on one
in exchange for three this time it's
going to be different Hamas uh as far as
we understand is yet to to tell us
exactly its own demands the qataris they
have them they're discussing them now
with with all the parties but they are
very tight Li when those very details
because they are very sensitive but they
have been saying in the past that when
it comes to this final stage is going to
be all for all something that has been
brushed aside by the Israelis in the in
the past are they likely to give some
concessions I think the Israelis are
also willing to move ahead with
something much bigger more significant
Harry ultimately when it comes to this
deal there is absolutely no way I can
see the qataris heavily involved without
strong guarantees this time from the
Americans in particular and the Israelis
that if we have a deal this deal has to
hold they cannot afford to see this
collapsing every now and then because
it's going to be the very final phase of
what could perhaps be a long ceas fire
fascinating stuff thank you very much
hash alar thank